White-paper (#438)
cqfn/diKTat: wp/sections/feature.tex

> \par As described above, diKTat is very configurable and comfortable. But these are not all of its advantages and features. Below will be presented and described unusual and important killer-feature diKTat.

Reviewer: comfortable -> user-friendly

\subsection{Configuration file}
\par
It's worth starting with the configuration files. This is a file in which the user can manually turn rules on and off or configure the rules settings. Below is one of the rules in the configuration file.
\begin{center}
- name: FILE\underline{ }IS\underline{ }TOO\underline{ }LONG\\
	enabled: true\\
	configuration:\\
	maxSize: '2000'\\
	ignoreFolders: ' '\\
\end{center}

> Each rule in this file consists of 3 parts: name - the name of the rule, enabled - the ability to enable or disable the rule, configuration - parameters for the rules. With the first two, everything is obvious. The third parameter is less obvious. The configuration is passed "properties" to check in this rule. For example, if you have a rule "FILE\underline{ }IS\underline{ }TOO\underline{ }LONG" - checking the number of lines in a Kotlin file, then the user can configure the maximum number of lines in the file - by changing the "maxSize" in the configuration,or the user can specify paths to folders that do not need to be checked - by writing the path before these daddy in "ignoreFolders". \\

Reviewer: Write about the functionality that Petr added - that properties is validated and promts you the nearest option in case you have made a missprint/typo

> \par As described above, diKTat is very configurable and user-friendly. But these are not all of its advantages and features. Below will be presented and described unusual and important killer-feature diKTat.

Reviewer: > killer-feature diKTat.

of?

\subsection{Configuration file}
\par

> It's worth starting with the configuration files. This is a file in which the user can manually turn rules on and off or configure the rules settings. Below is one of the rules in the configuration file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's worth starting with the configuration file. This is a file in which the user can manually turn rules on and off or configure the rules settings. Below is one of the rules in the configuration file.
```

\begin{center}
- name: FILE\underline{ }IS\underline{ }TOO\underline{ }LONG\\
	enabled: true\\
	configuration:\\
	maxSize: '2000'\\
	ignoreFolders: ' '\\

> \end{center}

Reviewer 2: Is everything okay with indentation here? Github shows the text as if configuration flags are on the same level as other fields.

> Each rule in this file consists of 3 parts: name - the name of the rule, enabled - the ability to enable or disable the rule, configuration - parameters for the rules. With the first two, everything is obvious. The third parameter is less obvious. The configuration is passed "properties" to check in this rule. For example, if you have a rule "FILE\underline{ }IS\underline{ }TOO\underline{ }LONG" - checking the number of lines in a Kotlin file, then the user can configure the maximum number of lines in the file - by changing the "maxSize" in the configuration,or the user can specify paths to folders that do not need to be checked - by writing the path before these daddy in "ignoreFolders". \\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each rule in this file has 3 fields: name - the name of the rule, enabled - whether the rule is enabled or disabled (all rules are enabled by default), configuration - parameters for the rule. With the first two, everything is obvious. The third parameter is less obvious. The configuration is a set of "properties" to configure this rule. For example, for a rule "FILE\underline{ }IS\underline{ }TOO\underline{ }LONG", that checks the number of lines in a Kotlin file, the user can configure the maximum number of lines allowed in the file - by changing the "maxSize" in the configuration, or the user can specify paths to folders that do not need to be checked - by writing the path in "ignoreFolders". \\
```

\subsection{Create ASTNode}
\par

> Another fuature is a method that allows you to construct a syntax tree from text. Here's an example of how it works:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another feature is a method that allows you to construct a syntax tree from text. Here's an example of how it works:
```

\begin{figure}[H]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[scale=0.5]{wp/pictures/code.png}
  \caption{Example how to call this method}   
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}[H]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[scale=0.5]{wp/pictures/tree.png}
  \caption{The tree we get}   
\end{figure}

> As you can see in the examples, we pass to the method the text of the nodes that we want to receive and the flag, which is set to false by default. The flag should be set to true in order to immediately build a tree with a root node of the FILE type. What's going on inside this method? First of all, the system properties are set (for example: set "idea.io.use.nio2" to true). Further in the method, the text is checked. If the text of the code contains such keywords as import or package, then the method builds a tree with a root node of the FILE type, otherwise it tries with a different root type. In both cases, at the end, if the tree contains an ERROR\underline{ }ELEMENT type of node, it means that an error was made in the code and the method was unable to build the tree and, therefore, throws an exception.\\

Reviewer: This algorithm can parse the code even partially, when you do not need to save the hierarchy of the file (with imports/packages/classes).

For example it can parse and provide you a sub-tree for these lines of code:
```
if(true) {
println("Hello world")
}
```

This helps us to implement such complex inspections like the detection of commented code, helps easily fix the code without manually building sub-trees in visitors.

> As you can see in the examples, we pass to the method the text of the nodes that we want to receive and the flag, which is set to false by default. The flag should be set to true in order to immediately build a tree with a root node of the FILE type. What's going on inside this method? First of all, the system properties are set (for example: set "idea.io.use.nio2" to true). Further in the method, the text is checked. If the text of the code contains such keywords as import or package, then the method builds a tree with a root node of the FILE type, otherwise it tries with a different root type. In both cases, at the end, if the tree contains an ERROR\underline{ }ELEMENT type of node, it means that an error was made in the code and the method was unable to build the tree and, therefore, throws an exception.\\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As you can see in the examples, we pass to the method the text of the source code that we want to transform and the flag, which is set to false by default. The flag should be set to true in order to immediately build a tree with a root node of the FILE type. What's going on inside this method? First of all, the system properties are set (for example: set "idea.io.use.nio2" to true). Further in the method, the text is checked. If the text of the code contains such keywords as import or package, then the method builds a tree with a root node of the FILE type, otherwise it tries with a different root type. In both cases, at the end, if the tree contains an ERROR\underline{ }ELEMENT type of node, it means that an error was made in the code and the method was unable to build the tree and, therefore, throws an exception.\\
```

\subsection{"SUPPRESS annotation"}
\par

> What if the user wants one of the diKTat rules not to check a piece of code? The \textsl{SUPPRESS} annotation will help with this. This annotation can be supplied to ignore a certain rule. For instance, if run this code:

Reviewer 2: Please provide more details: checks in which scopes are being suppressed this way (classes, functions, ...)? How several inspections can be suppressed in one annotation?

\begin{figure}[H]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[scale=0.5]{wp/pictures/user_code.png}
  \caption{Example code with incorrect function name}   
\end{figure} 

There will be warning: 

\begin{figure}[H]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[scale=0.5]{wp/pictures/error.png}
  \caption{Example of warning}   
\end{figure} 

But if there is a \textsl{@SUPPRESS} before this method, then there will be no errors at startup.
\begin{figure}[H]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[scale=0.5]{wp/pictures/user_code_with_suppress.png}
  \caption{Example of using "SUPPRESS" annotation}   
\end{figure} 

The example shows that the method has SUPPRESS annotation. Therefore, the \\ FUNCTION\underline{ }NAME\underline{ }INCORRECT\underline{ }CASE rule will be ignored on this method and there will be no error.\\

\subsection{WEB}
\par

> Also worth mentioning is the existence of a web version of diKTat.. This is a very handy tool that can be used quickly, and most importantly, it is very simple. A link to it will be below.

Reviewer: Mention that it was added to the ktlint project as a reference. (with link)

\begin{figure}[H]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[scale=0.3]{wp/pictures/web-example.png}
  \caption{Example of web application}   
\end{figure} 

\subsection{Validation rules}
\par

> As it has been mention earlier, user can customize configuration file on his own but, of course, name of the rule assigned can be incorrect. In this case, diKTat will suggest the closest name based on \textsl{Levenshtein} method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As it has been mention earlier, diktat has a highly customizable configuration file, but manually editing it is error-prone, for example, name of the rule can be incorrect due to a typo. Diktat will validate configuration file on startup and suggest the closest name based on \textsl{Levenshtein} method.
```
